# -Apache-Kafka-with-Python

Apache Kafka is a distributed data store optimized for ingesting and processing streaming data in real-time. Streaming data is data that is continuously generated by thousands of data sources, which typically send the data records in simultaneously. A streaming platform needs to handle this constant influx of data and process the data sequentially and incrementally. In this lesson, I will show you how to install apache kafka and send message to consumer server.

Lesson Goals
Apache Kafka is an open-source stream-processing software platform developed by the Apache Software Foundation. In this lesson, I will show you how to install apache kafka and send message to cunsumer server. Learning this technique will help you to deal well with streaming data.
Prerequests
Install Kafka-python # pip install kafka-python
Dowload Apache Kafka from this Site: https://kafka.apache.org/downloads
Make sure to unzip the file using 7-z


Fundamental Terms behind Kafka Architecture
Kafka Producer: It is a client or a program, which produces the message and pushes it to the Topic.
Kafka consumers: are typically part of a consumer group. When multiple consumers are subscribed to a topic and belong to the same consumer group, each consumer in the group will receive messages from a different subset of the partitions in the topic. Let’s take topic T1 with four partitions.
Kafka Topic: A Topic is a category/feed name to which records are stored and published. As said before, all Kafka records are organized into topics. Producer applications write data to topics and consumer applications read from topics.
Zookeeper : is an indispensable component of a Kafka configuration. It coordinates Kafka producers, brokers, consumers, and cluster memberships
Broker : is a Kafka server that runs in a Kafka Cluster
Kafka Cluster : consists of one or more servers (Kafka brokers) running Kafka. Producers are processes that push records into Kafka topics within the broker. A consumer pulls records off a Kafka topic.
Procedure to run Kafka Server locally(only applicable for Windows 10 OS)
After unzip the above download link save it to C:// drive
clink on bin file you will see other file by the name 'Windows'
open command prompt and cd to windows path
start zookeeper file first using this code: zookeeper-server-start.bat ../../config/zookeeper.properties
start kafka server : kafka-server-start.bat ../../config/server.properties
create topic : kafka-topics.bat --create --zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic TestTopic
 NB: this will  create single node topic. in future i will show you how to create multiple cluster
Check wether the topic created or not by using this: kafka-topics.bat --list --zookeeper localhost:2181
start your producer and send some message or copy from this notebook: kafka-console-producer.bat --broker-list localhost:9092 --topic TestTopic
check wether consumer recieve a message or not: kafka-console-consumer.bat --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic TestTopic --from-beginning
Don't forget to stop your server properly: kafka-server-stop.bat and zookeeper-server-stop.bat
